The writer begins typing cautiously. He has to write a short story. 
Lately everyone’s talking about the virtues of short fiction, but he, 
if he were honest, would confess that he detests stories in general, and short ones 
in particular. Still, not wanting to miss a trick, he’s been forced to join the ranks 
of prevaricators who feign enthusiasm for brevity. That’s why he’s terrified at how lightly 
his fingers skip across the keys, one word followed by another, then another appearing after 
that, and another, and together they form an entire line of text, which is soon followed by 
another—and another!—and he hasn’t even managed to find a focus yet, because he’s accustomed 
to going the distance: sometimes it takes him a hundred pages to sense what he’s writing 
about, other times he hasn’t gotten to that point after two hundred. It’s never even 
occurred to him to fret about length. The longer the better: blessed be each new line,
because, one after the other, they demonstrate not only the magnitude but also the mag
nanimity of his work, which is why—although, in all honesty, one, two, even fifty line
s add nothing to any story he’s narrating—never in his life would he expurgate. In ord
er to write this story, however, he almost needs to grab a ruler and begin measuring. 
It’s absurd. It’s like asking a marathoner to run the hundred-meter with dignity. In a
short story, each new line is not one more line, but one less, and in this particular 
case, one less from thirty, because that’s the limit: “From one to thirty lines,” the v
elvety voice that phoned from the Sunday supplement and asked for the story had said. R
eluctantly, the writer lifts his fingers from the keys and counts the lines thus far wri
tten: twenty-three. Only seven left until he’s at the limit. But, after transcribing this 
concern—and this one—he’s got even less. Six. Jesus, Mary and Joseph! He’s incapable of 
having a single thought without transcribing it, so every idea eats up another line, which 
leads, at line twenty-six, to his realization, just four lines from the end, that perhaps 
he is unable to find a focus for his story because—he’s suspected this for some time now—he’
s got nothing to say, and although normally he manages to dissimulate by churning out page 
after page, this damn short story is blowing his cover, which is why he sighs, on reaching 
line twenty-nine, and, with a not-wholly 
justified feeling of failure, types the period at 
the end of thirty.